Good morning.
I'm Phil Kerly, and I'm from Intel's
Software and Solutions Group.
And today I'm going to be talking
about performance optimization
techniques using Intel Libraries.
This is actually going to delve
into the topic previously by James.
I hope that you had a chance to
listen to that topic as well,
because this will definitely
fit right into his one,
two, and three recommendations,
focused on using libraries that are
already optimized for threading,
using OpenMP, and then building on top of
that with things like the
Intel Threading Building Blocks.
So I had an opportunity,
this is actually my fourth WWDC,
the third one that I've had
an opportunity to talk at.
Last year, I talked in quite a bit
of detail on P-Threads,
OpenMP,
and the Intel Threading Building Blocks.
And we actually had a demo last year
that was a little bit far-fetched.
It was more just the demo
of the different techniques.
And this year, I thought, you know,
we ought to look at something that's a
little bit more closer to real world.
Something that, you know,
kind of addresses what
James talked about in terms of,
you know,
looking at increasing complexity,
functionality, and quality of software.
So we're going to talk about
a face tracker application,
which is using the open
computer vision library,
which Intel has open sourced.
We're going to look at the
existing threading model.
The interesting thing about the
existing threading model is I figured,
you know,
Intel released OpenCV as an open
source application or a library
to support computer vision.
It released the face tracker application,
and I thought, wow,
this will be a great opportunity to look
at its threading model and see how it
scales on the Mac Pro up to eight cores.
And then we're going to look at how
we can actually improve that using
the Intel Threading Building Blocks.
So the existing application
doesn't use TBB,
and so we're going to look at
how we can actually improve that,
and then we'll wrap
that up with a summary.
So first of all, OpenCV is an open-source
computer vision library.
It's a collection of algorithms
and sample applications.
Space Tracker just
happens to be one of them.
You can actually
download the source code.
It's available--prebuilt libraries
available for the Mac OS X,
Linux, as well as Microsoft Windows.
So it's cross-platform supported.
It is released under the
Intel License Agreement for
Open Source Computer Vision Library.
You can go to the website and you can
find out exactly what that license is,
but it's pretty much almost
a free use for both private
as well as commercial use.
And here are the references
for the open source cv.org.
Again, you can go and check out the
actual details of OpenCV.
But what OpenCV actually targets
is the computer vision domain.
And so at the base of it is
the object identification.
Being able to recognize
different objects.
That can be extended
to facial recognition.
If you can do facial recognition
and you can do motion tracking,
then you can start looking at
gesture recognition and can improve
on the human-computer interaction.
So this is an area where I think there's
a lot of opportunity for parallelism,
and there's a lot of opportunity
to take advantage of the processing
power that is available on the
Intel multi-core platforms.
First of all,
before we get too far into it,
we might as well just give you a little
demo that actually shows you what the
Face Tracker application looks like,
and you can begin to see
what we're talking about.
So Palavi's joining me on stage,
and she'll take over for the demo.
Well, hello, everyone.
I'm also an engineer with the
Software Solutions Group back at Intel,
and I'm going to demo the open-source
version of the Face Tracker application,
which you can download
from the opencv.org site.
So back to the demo machine.
So this demo,
which I'm going to show you,
is going to take input from a camera,
which we have here.
And let me just run it here.
So as you can see,
it's taking input from the camera.
It's me, who you see on screen.
And it's tracking my face as
I'm moving across the screen.
It tracks my face.
So this is the original version.
And look at the chart.
Look at the CPU utilization
on the right side.
And as you can see,
it's about 100%. This is
an 8-core machine,
3.2 gigahertz processors.
And back to Phil.
We're going to switch back to the slides.
So this application is
fairly straightforward.
If you download the executable
and look at the source code,
there's basically a
face tracker executable.
It includes or takes advantage
of the QuickTime framework,
and it's using the OpenCV library
for object detection.
Again,
the application itself is not threaded,
per se.
It's strictly a sequential
loop or a continuing loop,
which basically does image acquisition.
We actually call the face or object
detection where we pass a heuristic,
which is looking for a particular
pattern to identify faces.
And then we actually display it.
We actually filter that.
We identify where it's located.
The return from the object detection
library will actually give us a
rectangle or coordinates around the face.
Returns that back to the
face detection routine.
Returns that back to us.
We put a little circle around it,
display it.
There's actually a short delay if you
go download the actual source code.
There's a short delay before
it actually loops around.
There's no software in that tries to
do any kind of real-time performance,
so it's not trying to schedule
these at 30 frames a second.
But as you can see,
the CPU utilization was very low.
And in fact, if you actually noticed,
it really wasn't all that
great in terms of performance.
There tended to be a little
bit of hesitation and drag on
this particular application.
Now, because Intel released OpenCV,
it was designed to actually work with
the Intel Performance Primitives Library.
And this library supports
a number of domains,
cryptography, small matrices,
typed algorithms, image processing,
signal processing.
And the way this library
was actually designed,
it was designed to work with
the Intel Performance Libraries.
And that's why, you know,
the OpenCV library was actually released,
was to actually show the benefit of
actually using the libraries instead
of writing or rolling your own
version of these particular routines.
So how's it actually implemented?
Within the OpenCV library,
there's a master array,
which is a function
pointers back to functions.
And so the way it was actually
implemented is that all of the
routines that are available or needed.
To do the object detection are
actually within the CB library.
So you can actually get
the source code to that.
If it doesn't detect
the Intel performance
libraries on your system,
which would be in the default location
for frameworks within the Mac OS X or 10,
it'll actually just point all the
pointers directly into the original
functions that were written.
But if you have the libraries installed,
it'll actually go and load those modules,
it'll do a search on the names of
the functions that are available,
and it finds the ones
that it's interested in,
and it actually just changes the
function pointer to point into
the Intel performance libraries.
Now, this is a little bit of a...
and David Kahn, and David Kahn,
and David Kahn, and David
This is what it would actually
look like when you're all done,
if you have the
Intel Performance Primitives installed,
and we'll go ahead and access it.
One of the things that we noticed when
you actually ran the routine is that
it's actually using the EyeSight camera.
And so one of the problems with doing
performance optimization is kind of
having a workload that's repeatable
so that you know that when you make
an improvement to the application
that you've actually improved it and
that something in your data hasn't
actually changed that gives you
false positives or false negatives.
So one of the things that we do is
we actually replace the code that
used the iSight camera with actually
pulling in a QuickTime video file.
And it's actually very easy
using the QuickTime framework,
so it was just a couple lines
of code different in order
to be able to implement that.
The other thing we wanted to do is
that the code doesn't really tell you
exactly how fast anything is running.
It's got this timing loop that's in there
that basically just has a fixed delay.
And so what we wanted to do was actually
have a way that we can actually measure
the performance improvement from
the optimizations that are being
actually made to the application.
And so we added a little bit of
timing code at the very bottom of it.
And we wanted it to run full throttle.
So right now,
there's like a 10 millisecond
delay at the end of the routine.
We really wanted to look at this from
a full throttle performance standpoint
to maximize the actual performance.
And then, when we're done,
we can go back and implement a real-time
synchronization routine to make it so
that it runs at 30 frames a second.
So this is kind of the changes that
we made from a very high level.
Again, we just changed the image
acquisition to a file decode.
We eliminated the delay and we
added some timing at the end.
And so we're using the QuickTime.
So we have a little funny video that
Palavi is going to show us in the demo.
And we'll see where that takes us.
Okay, so Phil talked about having a way
to measure repeatable performance,
having some kind of metric to
see how fast we are running,
and thirdly,
eliminate any delays that are there.
So I'm going to show you the
version which I showed you before,
but it's a little different.
It now takes input from a
video stream instead of taking
from the EyeSight camera,
and so that we can establish a baseline
version of how fast we are running.
We have this funny video running.
It's tracking the phase.
It's going to complete pretty soon.
Look at the CPU utilization on the right.
It's again about close to just 100%.
We are not fully utilizing the majority
of the eight cores that we have on hand.
And it's going to be done soon.
Okay, so there were about 309
frames in the stream,
and it took about just 24
seconds to complete the video.
I'm sure we can do better.
Phil talked about using
performance libraries and such,
but before we do that,
why don't we see how does
a shark profile look like?
a load very soon.
So looking at a shark profile,
the very first hot spot that we have
is coming from the OpenCV libraries
that we are utilizing here,
and I'm sure we can
do something about it.
Phil talked about that OpenCV supports
Intel performance libraries,
so the next thing I'm going to show
you a version where we actually
are using the Intel performance
libraries and see what kind of
performance gains we can get with that.
So keep that in mind that we ran
309 frames in about 24 seconds.
We had all about 100% CPU utilization
using probably just about
one core out of the eight,
and we are spending about 76% of
the time in the OpenCV libraries.
So I'm going to quit out of here.
So this is the IPP version where now
the OpenCV calls are being replaced
by the Intel Performance Libraries.
Look at the CPU utilization on the right.
We are all about using close to all
the eight cores that we have on hand.
And let's see how much time it takes.
Oh, it took only about 15 seconds
to complete the same workload.
Oh, we are about 50% faster,
about 1.5x speedup.
Let's see how does the profile look like.
As you can see,
we don't see that 76% time being
spent in the OpenCV libraries.
Instead,
we are calling some of the IPP libraries,
if I expand this.
Plus, you notice we see something else.
We see some of the KMP calls here,
which are coming from
something called OpenMP,
since Intel Performance Libraries uses
OpenMP to implement the threading.
And that's it for this demo,
and Phil is going to come back
and talk more about OpenMP,
and then we're going to have
some more demos following it.
So I think it's great that the
Intel Performance Libraries produced
about a 50% improvement in performance.
But I was really shocked when
I saw that we had an eight-core
machine and we're running almost
100% across all eight cores.
So we got from 15 seconds to about 24,
25 seconds, but it took us eight times
the CPU processing power.
So, the reality is that the
Intel Performance Libraries
also are using OpenMP.
And we'll talk a little bit about
what those additional functions
were actually doing and why.
But OpenMP is a specification
which was targeted at symmetric
multi-threaded processing systems.
So,
it's really targeted for these types of
processors where you have shared memory.
And it really is focused on encouraging
you to write threaded code incrementally.
So, one of the things that James Reinders
talked about was the fact
that whenever you write code,
that in addition to having
parallel code or threaded code,
you would want to be able to go
back to the single-threaded code.
Well,
OpenMP actually supports that paradigm.
You write it initially in
a straight serial fashion.
And then you describe to it exactly
how you want to do the threading.
So, you can actually go to the OpenMP.
And look up OpenMP and
the specifics on it.
But the interesting thing is that both
Apple's GCC 4.2 compiler and Intel's
C and Fortran compiler support OpenMP.
So, there's a lot of advantage.
And the Intel compilers are
supported across the Mac OS as
well as Linux and Windows.
So, what is OpenMP?
It's really a set of
programming directives.
So you describe how you
want your single-threaded
implementation to run in parallel.
There are some support routines that
allow you to get additional information,
so you can query things like how many
CPUs are actually in your system.
You can set how many CPUs you
would like to be in your system,
how many threads you actually want to
use if you don't want to use the default,
which would be the number
of cores that are available.
There are also environment variables,
so when your application starts up,
it will look at the
environment variables.
Again,
you can control the number of threads,
you can control the scheduling
paradigm that is used,
and the specifications
allow vendor extensions.
So let's take a real quick look
at what the code looks like in
OpenCV for the object detection.
It's basically a simple for loop.
It breaks up the image into a number of
strips across the image and basically
applies a heuristic for object
detection across each of those strips.
If you had a single core,
the number of strips would be one.
You would just actually
do the full image.
But if you had multiple cores,
you could actually break up the
strips and have one per core
or even more than one per core,
depending on how you wanted
to implement your code.
So a simple way to do this in OpenMP is
you could just add the pragma,
OpenMP parallel 4.
And this code would actually then,
if you compiled it with a compiler
that supported the OpenMP pragmas,
this code would actually become threaded.
In fact, that's what you get when
you look at the code.
So we went from
single-threaded performance.
To eight threads actually
running 100% on the CPU.
Now,
you can extend these pragmas they support
so that you can specify the number of
threads that are actually supported.
There are some cases where you
don't necessarily want your
application to necessarily use
all of the cores on your system,
or there are times when you actually
want to have more threads running than
you have physical cores available.
So if you have a thread that's going
to go out and do some synchronization
across the network and there's
going to be a fair amount of delay,
you might actually run
100 threads of these,
and you can actually do that
with OpenMP if you like.
The default, if you don't specify this,
is it's going to launch the same
number of threads as you have
cores available on your platform.
You can go further in terms of
scheduling how you want your threads to
be able to interact with the workload
in terms of dividing up the workload.
I'm going to talk a little bit more about
how you can influence the scheduling
and why you would want to do that.
So, if you didn't define anything
at all in that pragma,
and you just left it blank,
and you had the first statement,
which was pragma OpenMP parallel 4,
you would basically
get static scheduling.
Now, depending on how many strips
you actually had in your image,
how you wanted to define that,
you would essentially,
this is what you would have,
you would have,
Each of these rows between the serial
code would be operation on a frame,
so it's frame-based.
And you would divide up the number of
stripes that you're actually going to
operate on and assign those to threads.
So that's the static scheduling.
It says if I have 16 stripes,
I only have four threads.
I'm just going to divide each of them up.
The first thread is
going to get 0 through 3,
and the next one 4 through
whatever and continue.
And that would be static scheduling.
So it's already fixed by the framework.
The OpenMP framework has already
decided exactly how the threads
are going to operate on those
particular strips of the image.
And that's great, because there's really
no synchronization.
The synchronization
only happens at the end,
when all of the threads are done.
There's no coordination between
any of the threads on which stripe
they're actually gonna work on.
It's predetermined
before they even start.
The problem is,
what happens if that workload
is not exactly balanced?
So, in this particular case,
maybe a slight exaggeration,
but suppose that the image was
such that you had a very white
background that was very uniform
at the very top of the image,
but a lot more detail and a group
shot of people actually in an image.
There would be a lot more processing that
would need to take place on the lower
part of the image to detect the face.
So, you could actually have
this broken up such that,
for a given image,
one thread takes a lot longer than
the rest of the image actually takes.
And so, you would not want a static
scheduling in this case.
You would want more of a dynamic.
Now, you can actually change it a little
bit and still have static scheduling
by basically doing round robin.
So, you can change the chunk size.
So, I told you that if we had 16
stripes in the image and we
broke that up by four threads,
the first thread would
get zero through four.
Well,
maybe those are the first four stripes
on the bottom that have a lot of detail,
and the top part of the image,
which is all white,
would be the last four.
Well, they would still go really fast,
but if you round robined that such
that the first thread got zero and
the second one got stripe number one,
then you kind of even out
the workload a little bit.
The problem is that you can still
end up with an imbalanced workload,
but not nearly as severe.
But again, we can improve on that.
So, what we can do is we can
actually say dynamic.
It says that each thread
works on one stripe,
and only when it's complete does it
go back and actually get the next one.
Now, the problem is with this is that you
have a little bit more overhead because
now every time I finish a thread,
I have to do some synchronization
with the framework to say,
okay, what is the next stripe
that I have to work on?
Is it, you know, is it one or is it two?
Is it number 16?
But you get a more balanced view.
So, as long as the workload per
stripe is fairly large versus
the synchronization of overhead,
then dynamic actually works pretty well.
And that's actually what's
actually been implemented in
the OpenCV framework library.
So, I told you that
Intel Performance Libraries
support OpenMP as well,
because we saw that
in the Shark profiles.
So, the problem that we have is that
we have our main application,
which has no threading.
We're using the QuickTime framework,
which has its own implementation,
whatever that may be,
that Apple has provided.
Then we have the Object Detection
OpenCV Library framework,
which is using OpenMP.
Thank you.
So every time you crawl that library,
it's going to basically,
if you don't give it any parameters,
it's going to invoke as many threads
as there are cores on the system.
But for every one of the
libraries that we load in the
Intel Performance Libraries,
it's also, those are independent modules.
When they get initialized,
they are also using OpenMP,
and so they're also creating as many
threads as are in the libraries.
When we actually looked
at the Shark profile,
we saw that KMP fork was like 20%
or 25% of the actual workload.
Turns out that one of the things that
OpenMP does is it likes to not have
threads be context switched out in case
its synchronization objects are available
immediately or soon after it needs it.
So we actually enter spin weights,
and that's what you're actually
seeing is spin weights.
But the problem with spin weights is that
as long as you're holding on to the CPU,
nothing else can actually get scheduled.
So one of the things is,
Intel has a vendor extension
environment variable,
which allows us to change
the spin weight block time.
And so in this case,
we wanted to see what the real
performance improvement was,
or what the real CPU utilization was,
and we can actually set it to zero.
And we'll eliminate the
OpenMP spin weights.
So we'll go ahead and switch to
the demo again and show you what
the performance looks like with
OpenMP and setting it to zero.
Okay, so in the previous demo,
we utilized the Intel's
performance libraries,
which also uses OpenMP,
and we showed you the Shark profile.
Now, in this demo,
what I'm going to do is,
as Phil mentioned,
the OpenCV libraries also use OpenMP.
So we're going to run a version with
that and also show you the Shark profile,
and we're going to see same kind
of calls showing up in the profile.
And then I'll follow it with another
version of the demo where we'll
set the KMP block time to zero
and see how it changes our profile
as well as our CPU utilization.
So let's run the first version.
This is where the OpenCV is
running with OpenMP enabled.
So keep an eye on the CPU utilization.
It's the same funny video,
the bobblehead video.
Look, we are utilizing almost
close to all the cores and,
yeah, we are tracking the face and etc.
But I'm sure we can do better.
And in order to do better,
let's first eliminate all the
KMP wait calls that we were seeing.
But before that,
let's see how the profile
looks for this version.
You see the CV calls are there,
which we had seen in the original demo,
but we also see the KMP calls.
And all these are actually
coming from the OpenMP weights,
which Phil just talked about.
So, now let's set next the
KMP block time to zero,
like Phil mentioned,
and see how it changes.
So I'm going to keep
this on the background.
And also notice we are
running about 10 milliseconds,
which is good.
I mean,
we started with about 24 milliseconds.
And we now, instead of using Intel's
performance libraries,
we are utilizing the
OpenMP feature on the OpenCV.
So we did good.
So now we are,
what this version is where the
KMP block time has been set to zero.
And it's the same thing
which I ran just previously.
Look at the CPU utilization.
It's only about like,
I'll run it one more time,
about like just 400 or 500 percent.
Not the 700 or close to 800 percent
which we were seeing before.
You can see a lot of the random circles,
and I'm going to talk about
that and how we actually utilize
the multi-core feature of the
Intel platform and solve that with
other threading implementations.
Before I turn over to Phil,
let me show you the
profile for this version.
So as you can see,
if you compare the previous profile,
all the KMP, fork, barrier, KMP pause,
KMP yield, all those calls are actually
gone from the top four,
five, or 10, or 15 hotspots.
And that's due to the KMP block
time setting equal to zero.
So like I said,
as far as the random circles we see,
I'm going to talk about it later.
Back to slides and Phil.
Thanks.
So one of the things that
we saw in that demo was,
first of all,
when we set the spin weights to zero,
I don't know if you noticed,
we actually went from like 10.7
seconds to over 11 seconds.
So there is benefit
from those spin weights,
right, in terms of actual performance.
But the problem with seeing those
spin weights when you're trying
to do performance analysis is the
fact that it hides the potential.
You don't know exactly where
you're spending your time.
If you just look at the CPU utilization,
you would have been up at 800%.
When you actually look at the final
result with the KMP turned off,
it was much lower.
It was down probably around,
I don't know, 300% or 400%. So...
The fact that we have,
that we got rid of all
that extra spin weight,
we can clearly see that there's a
lot more performance power that's
available to take advantage of and
actually improve their performance.
The video obviously goes a lot faster,
but we also are introducing a
little bit of false positives,
and we'll talk about that
a little bit further.
But what we decided to do was actually
implement a pipeline approach.
This is one of the things that
James talked about earlier,
was changing the kind of the paradigm
on how you look at the actual problem.
The original code was very serial,
and we relied on the library to
provide us with the parallelism.
But the reality is that if you
really look at this serial code,
you can break it up
into a file decode step,
or task, as James called it,
the face detection.
So once you actually have the image,
you can do the face
detection on the image.
You don't have to worry about
file decode at that point.
And then the display task.
So that's why we decided to come
up with the pipeline approach,
where each of those steps
are actually separate tasks,
and they're all operating
or delivering a frame.
And that's instead of actually
dividing up the frame into stripes.
So the other thing that we
decided to do was instead of
operating on strips of the image,
so that we can get rid
of a lot of the overhead,
was to actually then say, hey,
once we have the image
from the file decode,
then we can start the face
detection immediately.
And these blocks are fairly
representative of the time that it
actually takes to do each of these steps.
So if you looked at
file decode and display,
that combined is about a
third of the total processing
time for the file decode,
face detection, and display time.
If we can actually eliminate the face
detection or get that reduced down,
the file detection or decode and the
display are basically serial operations.
There's not much that we can do
from our application standpoint.
Now, QuickTime may actually be threaded
and provide some additional benefit.
But from our perspective,
out of the QuickTime,
we're basically getting
a frame at a time.
We can't get a second frame
until we get the first frame.
We can't display the second frame
until we've displayed the first frame.
So those are serial operations.
But clearly, the face detection itself
can be a parallel operation.
And the fact,
instead of doing this by stripes,
in other words, making the workload
smaller for each thread,
we're basically giving each thread the
full set of workload on an image and
allowing that to be very localized.
And there's a lot of
benefits to that as well.
Now,
each frame that's having face detection,
all of that data that's associated with
that thread can run on that same CPU,
can take advantage of all the
cache that's available for that.
And there's not a whole lot of data
migration from one core to another
or from one cache to another.
So, how did we actually implement this?
We used the Intel Threading
Building Blocks.
It really targets more complex threading
models than what you can get with,
certainly with P-threads,
which really doesn't provide you
much support other than the ability
to implement your own model.
But certainly over OpenMP,
which was much more data
decomposition-oriented
with the parallel four,
does allow for some
functional decomposition,
but it doesn't give you the
higher-level threading paradigm
that you would really like to do.
And in this case,
we actually used the linear pipelining
with filter stages to implement that.
You can also do things
like parallel scan,
parallel sort.
You can do the parallel for,
which is what's available on OpenMP,
as well as reduction and
parallel while implementations.
Now, the Threading Building Blocks
are optimized libraries for
the Intel-based platforms,
again, that are available on the Mac,
Linux, and Windows.
They're not limited to the
Intel compiler because it's
actually available in source.
They are C++, so if you're using Fortran,
you don't have TBB available
because we're actually using
templates to implement it.
But it is cross-platform,
and the best benefit is the fact that,
unlike last year,
TBB is now open-sourced.
So you can actually download it,
compile it yourself, modify it,
implement it, and use it as you see fit
under the GPL license.
So, we saw those extra rings
that were showing up.
And so the idea was that, hey,
we're only using, you know,
three or four cores out
of the eight-core system.
Why not add more value to the end user?
And the end user, you know,
is going to see those
additional false positives.
So what we decided to do was,
let's take advantage of that and
add a frame detection history.
So, in other words,
as we get these frames
or these images in,
and we've detected these regions
that we think they are faces,
we'll actually keep a history of that.
And if we see from frame to frame that
we have a fairly consistent view that
that image or that face has shown up
multiple times through that history,
then we keep the circle.
But if it's a flash,
if it only shows up one time
or in just a couple of frames
and isn't there consistently,
then we actually add a
frame detection history.
And so we can actually remove that.
And so we actually implemented, again,
some more stages,
which could be done in parallel.
So as soon as we went to
the frame detection history,
we determined what that history was.
Then on each frame,
we can decide whether we actually want to
keep the circle or not keep the circle.
And then display it.
But we can actually go further.
If you actually look at what
Palavi showed before when she
was using the video camera,
was that when she turned sideways,
the circle went away.
So what we were really doing
is only using the heuristic
for frontal facial recognition.
So only if you were basically
looking straight ahead would
we actually detect the face.
But there's also a
heuristic in the OpenCV,
which allows you to have
profile face detection.
So if you turn sideways,
it'll actually show up as well.
And so we decided that, hey,
that's an end-user benefit.
Why not add both frontal as
well as profile detection,
add some quality filtering
to the capability,
and then display that?
So that's what we've done,
and we'll let Palavi show you the result.
Okay, so this version which I'm going to
show you is where we implemented
a pipeline approach using the
Threading Building Blocks.
And I'm going to show you a part
of that code and how it looks.
Phil talked about the various
filters in the various stages.
And in the previous talk,
James talked about how you can increase.
One of the ways to increase
scaling with parallelism is by
increasing your workload or making
it more complex or value-added,
as Phil mentioned.
So not only are we
increasing the scalability,
we are doing the parallelism
using the pipeline approach,
where we would end up probably hiding
some of the latencies of the more serial
or the slower stages of the pipeline,
but we are going to also add more
and more stages for improving
quality or just increasing features,
like adding side-face detection in
addition to the front face as an
additional stage to the pipeline.
So I'm going to show you first.
some of that code and then I'm
gonna demo you how it looks like.
So this is just the,
and as mentioned earlier, I mean,
we are working at a very higher,
at an abstract layer rather than going
into the nits and bits of the details of
writing and managing your native threads.
This is a TBB code and
see how clean it looks.
I mean, we start with the, let's say,
initializing the task
scheduler for the TBB.
And we follow it by just adding
the various stages of the pipeline,
starting with the input filter,
where we are reading from the video file,
followed by the face detection filter,
where we are detecting the front face,
followed by the side face detection,
and then adding some more quality
filters for maybe removing
some of those random circles,
which we were seeing as false positives.
And then ending up with the drawing
stage and then the output stage.
And finally, we have this run pipeline,
where we are running the,
where we actually get
the TBB pipeline going.
So as you can see, it looks pretty neat,
pretty clear, pretty well encapsulated,
the various stages can be
just implemented very neatly.
So I'm going to now demo
the TBB pipeline version.
And this will include the additional
feature of detecting the side faces,
as well as a quality feature
where it's removing some of the
random circles which we saw.
And again,
we are reading from a video file.
Look at the CPU utilization.
We have many more features added
for quality and functionality.
And we actually were down to
like 300% or 400% utilization.
And now we are back to
using most of the cores,
but this time with
additional functionality.
I'm going to run it one more time.
The red circles are for the side faces,
and the front ones are for the green.
You also saw some of the blue ones,
and those are where we detected
a side face and a front face,
and just to show you that how
you can add more functionality.
Also look at the time it took to
complete some of those 408 frames.
It's only about like seven seconds,
so you can see a vast improvement
in your speedup for the video.
So we started this whole presentation by
demoing you the original version where
we were taking input from the camera.
And I just showed you,
then we kind of switched back to,
switched to like reading from
a video file so that we can see
more repeatable performance and we
can get some performance metrics.
So we were trying to run
it like full throttle,
you know, as fast as we could.
And now I'm going to show you a version
where we go back to where we started.
Now we are again going to take
input from the EyeSight camera.
We are going to run
real-time and see how we do.
And again,
this is the TB pipeline version,
but now this time taking
input from the camera.
So I'm like sideways,
probably it's reading,
it's trying to see,
maybe detected a front
face and a side face,
so it's looking blue.
If I look forward...
It kind of switches to
green in the middle,
but I think it's also detecting it as a
side face in addition to a front face.
That's why it's looking blue.
It's running pretty fast.
It's running real-time.
Look at the CPU utilization.
We are probably about, what, 500, 400%.
So as you can see,
we can utilize Intel's Threading
Building Blocks to probably get the same
kind of performance speedups in terms
of CPU utilization and overall time.
Okay, I'm out of the camera,
so I'm going to do it again.
That's pretty much it for this video.
Phil?
Thank you.
So I don't know if you noticed,
there was actually green circles,
there was blue circles,
and there were red circles.
What that was really trying to highlight
is the fact that the green circles
were the front facial detection.
Now, the profile also could pick
up some frontal views as well.
And so what we decided to do was,
in addition to drawing the green circles,
is that if both heuristics
detected the face,
then we would make it blue.
But if you actually had a side profile,
and it was only the side profile,
then it would turn red.
So at the very end,
Palavi was actually looking
a little bit more sideways,
and actually you could see the
red circles showing up as well.
So,
one of the things that was interesting
is we also got rid of the spin weights,
which is, other than improving task or
context switching between threads,
we actually,
by getting rid of that and improving
the quality and adding features,
we were down to less than
somewhere around seven seconds
in terms of performance.
So, it was actually the best performance.
So, in summary, by adding IPP,
we definitely got an improvement,
about a 50% overall
performance improvement.
And again, that's from a
single-threaded perspective.
Keep it in mind, the fact that the video
decode and the display were
not threaded at all from IPP.
So, we already started with less
of the total performance.
We were only focused on
the face detection part.
With OpenMP, we saw that we got a
scaling from 1p to 8p,
and that was about a 2x
improvement with the OpenCV and the
Intel Performance Libraries using OpenMP.
Now, the problem is,
is not that OpenMP was bad, right?
That's the wrong message.
If you look at it from
a library perspective,
the only thing the library
has is an image to work on.
So their point of view was the fact that
they actually would take the image and
subdivide the image in terms of how they
were going to actually do parallelism.
And they did see performance.
The other thing is that if you
looked at this on a dual-core
or a quad-core system,
you would never notice all of
the performance improvement
that you can get on an 8-core,
because you're already doing fairly
well with OpenMP and IPP already.
But 2.5 is actually... be fairly
disappointing just to an OpenMP.
But by introducing TBB and up-leveling
the problem and actually focusing on,
instead of data
decomposition of an image,
we actually up-leveled
to the image level,
we were able to actually improve
the real-time performance
on the facial detection.
We could add filtering and profiling
to get rid of the false positives.
You could add additional profile
detection and additional features.
And that's not the end of it.
I mean, we were probably up around
5x in terms of performance.
We were already at about
600% CPU utilization.
But clearly,
you can't do that on a quad-core system.
And there's still room for
improvement in terms of capability.
And the nice thing about the pipeline,
it was very easy to add stages.
Each of those stages, actually,
in terms of implementation,
was probably done in a half
a day from the original code.
Because we were able to basically
cut and paste the original code
into the filter stages and then just
added those lines to the pipeline.
And what you really want to
do is focus on the fact that,
you know, if you're targeting an
eight-way quad-core system,
that you're adding value to the people
that have eight-way quad-core systems.
But at some point,
you're going to be also marketing
to people who only have a
dual-core or a single-core.
So you want to be able to dial back
the features and functionality.
And one way to do that is just... to
simply not have those stages added or
removed to the actual implementation.
So in summary, first of all,
develop for the high-end
quad-core platforms.
And then test and reduce the amount
of functionality that you're actually
going to provide to the lower end.
You want to be ahead of the curve.
You have platforms already
out there for eight-way.
James already talked about, you know,
the vision of Intel adding
more and more quad-cores.
Or adding more cores in general.
Eight cores is here today,
and most applications don't
take care of that already.
16, 32, 40, 100.
The vision's already there within Intel.
And if you're not developing on high-end,
you can't actually see or think about
or get the benefit of being able to
innovate on those higher-end platforms.
It's not just about data decomposition.
It's not just about taking your
problem today and making it faster.
It's really about
increasing the complexity.
So in terms of images,
making the images larger.
In terms of video,
it's taking simple video codecs
into the high-definition range.
Adding functionality,
things like the filtering capability
or side profile detection.
I mean, at some point,
you could even envision that on
an 8 or a 16 way that you would
move to facial recognition,
that you would actually be able to
look up in a database and extract
the image and do a compare to see,
you know, if that image matches
somebody in your database.
And of course, the improving quality.
So high-definition video,
the filtering that we did to
remove those false positives.
So use the available compute resources
that you have to really innovate
and improve the end-user experience.
Thank you.
There's a lot of new
techniques that are out there.
Some of them are newer than others.
Certainly,
OpenMP has been around for quite a while,
but TBB is also available,
and that's actually open source.
So that's something that you
can take and utilize in however
you see fit going forward.
Certainly,
Apple's innovating in the same region,
moving that threading paradigm
higher and higher so that you're
focused on the task and not at the
implementation or the details of
managing your individual threads.
You have to take advantage
of those capabilities.
The benefit of doing that is as
processors get better and better
and hardware innovation improves and
various curveballs get thrown at you
from a NUMA architecture perspective,
those threading libraries are going to
be evolving and taking advantage of that.
They're going to be optimized
for those particular changes in
the architecture going forward.
If you're using those libraries,
you're going to get the benefit
when those things become available.
And for me, you know,
here was a prime example
of an application that
Intel released as open source,
built on OpenCV using the
Intel Performance Primitives.
While it was very much focused on image
processing and added value at that level,
the reality is that as more
threading becomes implemented,
not only in your own applications,
but in other libraries
that you might be using,
there's going to be conflict, right?
So libraries need to be able to allow
you to control how threading happens,
even at the library level.
And as you move into those
areas of multi-threading,
you know, think about extracting.
Just don't take the benefit that you
get from the libraries for threading,
but start thinking about your
own applications and how you can
abstract that higher into your own.